add a blog post for Fedora ELN (#171)
packit/packit.dev: content/posts/fedora-eln.md

---
title: "Working on the next major RHEL release, in your upstream repo"
date: 2020-10-04T12:07:03+02:00
draft: false
---

[Fedora EL Niño](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/eln/) (ELN) is such an awesome idea - rawhide packages build in two distinct buildroots:

1. the standard Fedora Rawhide buildroot
2. while the second one mimics Red Hat Enterprise Linux environment

This way you can make sure that your new upstream release builds fine in the next RHEL.

> But on the other hand, it's kinda too late when the build happens after an
> upstream release is out and being updated in Fedora Rawhide dist-git. Wouldn't
> it be better to know if the upstream checkout builds fine in ELN while working on
> the code?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, getting this feedback is kinda too late: the upstream
release already happened and the code was imported in Fedora dist-git,
so fixing an issue will require repeating the whole process. Wouldn't
it be better to know if the upstream change builds fine in ELN **while**
working on the code?
```

Oh, wait!

> **TL;DR you can do this easily with packit!!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**TL;DR you can do this easily with Packit!**
```

> **TL;DR you can do this easily with packit!!**
> 
> ### The long read

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### You can do this easily with packit!
```

Author: shoter & better, thanks!

If your GitHub project is not using packit yet, [here's a guide](https://packit.dev/packit-as-a-service/) how to start.

Once you have that set up, you need to make sure that your pull requests are
being built in `fedora-eln` target:

```
jobs:
  - job: copr_build
    trigger: pull_request
    metadata:
      targets:
        - fedora-development
        - fedora-eln
```

With this config, every pull request code change will be built in all
development versions of Fedora (at the time of writing this, it's Rawhide and
Fedora 33) and in Fedora ELN.

Easy, right?

You can set up the same thing for pushes to a branch, so for example build
current HEAD of master in ELN and development versions of Fedora:

```
jobs:
  - job: copr_build
    trigger: commit
    metadata:
      targets:
        - fedora-development
        - fedora-eln
      branch: master
```

> ### Why?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### A real life example
```

If you got here and you're still not sure why you'd need this, I can give

> you a practical example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you a real life example.
```

Recently, [Jirka Konecny](https://github.com/jkonecny12) from the RHEL
Installer team reached out to us that they would love to use packit as a CI
system. He set it up and now all the anaconda PRs are being built and tested on
`Fedora Rawhide x86_64`.

![Anaconda PR passing tests](/anaconda-rawhide-tests-passing.png)

Jirka followed and added Fedora ELN as another target. The build failed on the
fact that one of build requirements was not available in ELN.

```
No match for argument: metacity
```

Since the team discovered this during their upstream development process, they

> can react to the issue right away. It would be pretty late if they found this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can react to the issue right away. It would have been pretty late if they found this
```

> out while the next major RHEL is reaching alpha - at this moment they should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
while the next major RHEL is reaching alpha - at this moment they should
```

---
title: "Working on the next major RHEL release, in your upstream repo"
date: 2020-10-04T12:07:03+02:00
draft: false
---

[Fedora EL Niño](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/eln/) (ELN) is such an
awesome idea. It enables building rawhide packages in two distinct buildroots:

> 1. the standard Fedora Rawhide buildroot
> 2. and the second one, which mimics Red Hat Enterprise Linux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. the standard Fedora Rawhide buildroot and
2. a second one, which mimics Red Hat Enterprise Linux
```

This way you can make sure that your new upstream release builds fine in the
next RHEL.

> It's a little unfortunate we are getting this feedback too late: the upstream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But this feedback might be a little bit too late: the upstream
```

My main concern here was that the previous sentence is using "you", this one used "we", and felt confusing. Made it impersonal to fix this.

release already happened and the code was imported in Fedora dist-git, so
fixing an issue will require repeating the whole process. Wouldn't it be better
to know if the upstream change builds fine in ELN **while** working on the
code?

Oh, wait!

### You can do this easily with Packit

If your GitHub project is not using Packit yet, [here's a
guide](https://packit.dev/packit-as-a-service/) how to start.

Once it's set up, you need to make sure that your pull requests are also being
built in the `fedora-eln` target:

```
jobs:
  - job: copr_build
    trigger: pull_request
    metadata:
      targets:
        - fedora-development
        - fedora-eln
```

With this config, changes from every pull request will be built in all
development versions of Fedora (at the time of writing this, it's Rawhide and
Fedora 33) and in Fedora ELN.

Easy, right?

> You can set up the same thing for pushes to a branch, for example build the
> master branch in ELN and development versions of Fedora:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can set up the same to happen when pushing to a branch, for example build the
`master` branch in ELN and development versions of Fedora:
```

Author: I disagree on this one - I prefer my wording since it's shorter and I feel like the word "happen" is implied

Author: since we can't agree, I'll rewrite it completely

Reviewer: The part that does not sound right to me is "pushes to a branch".
